Interactive Shell:
An interactive shell is a command-line interface that allows users to enter commands and receive output in real-time. It provides a prompt for users to type commands and interact with the system.
An interactive shell is defined as the shell that simply takes commands as input on tty from the user and acknowledges the output to the user.
For example, a bash shell is an interactive shell. 

Non-Interactive Shell:
a non-interactive shell is a shell that runs without user interaction. It is typically used for running scripts or executing commands in the background.
Scripts like Init and startup are considered non-interactive since they must run without human intervention.

There are two types of shells: login shells and non-login shells. A login shell is the first shell that a user encounters when logging into the system. It requires the user to enter their username and password. A non-login shell, on the other hand, is started after the user has logged in and does not require authentication.
When a user successfully logs in to a Linux system via terminal, SSH, or switches to a user with the “su -” command, a Login shell is created.

When a login shell starts, it executes a set of pre-configured scripts to set up the environment. You may run this command on the terminal to discover which shell you are using. 
echo $0 
If the result is “-bash” or “-su”, you are on the login shell. Non logins shell output will be bash or su

TTY(Teletypewriter):
In early days, machines known as teleprinters were developed. These machines could send typed messages "down the wire" to distant locations. The messages were typed by the sender on a keyboard of sorts. They were printed on paper at the receiving end. 
In Linux, the term "TTY" refers to a terminal device. It represents the physical or virtual device through which a user interacts with the system.
When you log in to a Linux system through a terminal, graphical terminal emulator, or over SSH, you are essentially using a TTY.
 Linux uses a device file to represent a virtual TTY, which enables interaction with the OS by handling input (usually a keyboard) and output (usually a screen).

PTY(Pseudo-Terminal):
It is a virtual terminal that emulates(mimics) a real terminal. It allows programs to have terminal input/output capabilities without being connected to an actual hardware terminal.
 For example, when you run an SSH session, the SSH server creates a PTY pair to manage the communication between your local terminal and the remote server.

