Console: It is just a screen where your operating system displays some text and where it allows you to type commands.
Terminal Emulator: It is graphical app that runs in windows and does similar thing and displays output and allows you to type commands.

Local: Just a tech word that for something in front of you or something that you can physically access.

Every linux system uses same tool that allows you to login which is OpenSSH Daemon. It is a program that
run on server every time. Before SSH, Telnet was used to connect. Telnet was highly insecure and doesn't encrypt the communication during telnet session.

ip a -> command to see ip address.

Mac and linux based os already have an ssh client pre-installed. Previously windows users have to install putty to ssh into the remote machine
but after windows 10 there is no need to do so. you can directly ssh into the machine with cmd.

Double time tab press gives you all posibilities to auto complete it.
use man and --help to figure out commands.

apropos command: The apropos command in Linux is used to search for commands and their corresponding descriptions based on keywords. 
The apropos command searches through the man pages (manual pages) on your system to find matches for the specified keywords. 
if you get error like:"nothing appropriate
then run this command: sudo mandb
e.g: apropos hostname

ssh -v option: (verbose) It is used to increase the level of detail in the output when establishing an SSH connection. When you use the -v option, 
SSH provides more information about the connection process, making it useful for troubleshooting and debugging connection issues. 
e.g: ssh -v user@hostname





Linux Terminologies:

Kernel:
  Application-->Shell-->Kernel-->Hardware
  The kernel is a computer program at the core of an operating system (OS). It is the part of the OS that loads first and remains in the main memory. 
  The kernel connects the system hardware to the application software.
  The kernel connects the system hardware to the application software, and every operating system has a kernel.

